Medical Rewrite (#67)
Synixe/Documents: guides/players/medical.md

# Medical Rewrite

> ## Rifleman

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Rifleman

```

> ### UI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### UI

```

- Colors on the paper doll are now different:
  - Light yellow to dark red -> bleeding wound, darker means faster bleed rate.
  - Dark blue -> bandaged wound.
  - Light blue -> stitched.
- Wounds are prefixed to indicated if they're bandaged [B] or stitched [S].
- In the radial / selection menu limbs with tourniquets appear with a circled icon instead of the normal one.

> ### Fractures

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Fractures

```

- A direct hit to a limb has a chance to cause a fracture, a fractured limb will cause you to be at a severe disadvantage.

> - Be it limping for legs, or severe aiming shake and sway for arms, the only way to treat a fracture is a splint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Be it limping for legs, or severe aim sway for arms, the only way to treat a fracture is with a splint.
```

Reviewer: poor choice of wording imo

- Splints are single use, anyone can apply one to themselves or others.

Fractured limbs have a unique icon on the paper doll and a specific set of sounds when they happen, they also ***induce severe amounts of pain.***

> ### Damage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Damage

```

- Changes have been made to the way damage is handled, only a direct hit to the torso or head are directly fatal.
- Shots to limbs will induce bleeding and later cardiac arrest.
- Due to changes to vitals, bleeding requires a renewed attention or you will run the risk of entering cardiac arrest.

> ### Misc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Misc

```

- Pain effects have been reworked, they cause less visual strain.
- You treat others faster than yourself, medics have a bonus to their treating speed.
- Carry animations are now faster.
- New pain sounds.
- New injury sounds.
- Unconsciousness is now preceded by a rag-doll.
- Unconsciousness visual effects have been changed.

## Medics

> ### Vitals

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Vitals

```

- Pain is now part of the vitals loop, meaning that pain caused by an injury will affect heart rate.
- Severe amounts of pain and blood loss can cause the heart rate to reach extremely high values and make the patient run the risk of cardiac arrest.
- In those scenarios adenosine can be used to reduce the heart rate while open wounds are treated, morphine could also be used but it has a much longer time in system than adenosine.

With bleeding being more severe cardiac arrest scenarios will be much more common, learning to treat them accordingly will be necessary.

> **The first signs of trauma induced cardiac arrest are:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**The first signs of trauma induced cardiac arrest are:**

```

- Large amount of blood loss.
- The heart rate will quickly rise, at this stage fluids and possibly adenosine could save the patient.
- The heart rate and blood pressure read 0, at that point you have little time for action.

Once a patient enters cardiac arrest your best bet is having multiple people working on the patient, one being assigned to procuring CPR non-stop until vitals return, others treating open wounds, providing fluids and checking vitals.

> ### Other

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Other

```

- Atropine is gone
- You can give IVs to yourself.
- You can use surgical kits on yourself.

> - Stitching is now possible with open wounds still present, it will only stitch the closed wounds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Stitching is now possible with open wounds still present, it will only stitch the bandaged wounds.
```

Reviewer: closed wounds assumes wound is already stitched, hence closed.
